Something I think both you and I agree, that failed
to capture the essence of Texas and the Southwest
and the attitudes of people like yourself. Who
really knew it. Who knew it, who went out, who
fought for it, who struggled through it, who have
that inner identity with it. And yet you were
called a country bumpkin. You were put down. Even
my ex-husband was put down, right? That's so true.
We saw something that was such an atrocity to
really the preservation of history.
When you grow up in a town, and you see things, and
you live in a house, and you know it, and then
somebody come along and tell you, oh no, this is
right. that lived across the Mason-Vixon line and
had probably never been in Johnson City. And then
they come in here and tell you what is what. That's a
bunch for the birds. You do not go in and transform a
community into what you fascinate it to be, you
know, what your fascination might be that it is.
You don't set your birthright either. No, which is
something that the National Park did try to do to
you. I'm glad they're out of the picture now and
that we're into something that's actually
preserving history. Is it about time to eat? You
want some hell? I've got to get this dinner going.
We're going to eat. It's a burplish cucumber. I
don't care how big it is. The deer ate the end of this
off.
You can't believe that. I don't expect you to. What
is that now? That's a cucumber? What kind is it?
Berkley's. Berkley's. Snake. Oh, how good. Well,
of course it's good. I've never had one like that.
Any time that I serve you something you can't eat,
well, you just let me know, will you? I have never
turned down anything yet, Ava.
You know what you do with that, or I do with it
rather, I take it and I put this Italian dressing on
it. No, that's good. I left that outside for a long
time. The seed's getting a little bit large. Did
you have a garden this year, Ava? I started, but
then I got hurt and I didn't get to finish it. Yeah.
Now, I know that you're going to say, Miss Eve, I
just can't believe this, but everybody has to fix
his own salad. But you take a raw squash, like I'm
going to slice right here, and you put a little
light salt on it and a little accent, and you use
that salad dressing in there. I'll tell you.
cream, salad dressing. And you'll say, well, I
just don't know. I never had anything like this. I
don't know whether I even want to taste it or not. I
don't like squash. There you go. But you'll find
out that it doesn't taste like squash. But it's
good. I like raw squash.
I like them cooked.
meats, and fry them. That's not very good for you,
but. What, the fry? Uh-huh. How do you fry your
squash? The old-fashioned way, honey. Tell me.
I'll see if that's something I know how to do. All
right. Dip them in buttermilk. In buttermilk?
Uh-huh. And sprinkle them with meal, and then fry
them and leave them there. Mm. I don't think I've
had them that way. It sounds good. Well, the
buttermilk holds the... Of course, you know, in
old times, you made use of what you had. And you
didn't disturb the cream on your milk. And you
churned every other day. And you kept that
buttermilk. And that's why you'd always get
buttermilk. I see.
Yeah, you've come a long way in the kitchen from
when you first began to grow up and eat out there on
the ranch. Yes, I have. Sort of. You'll have to tell
me a little more about that. About first meals. You
know, quite a difference in the management of a
kitchen that you cook on a fireplace than one that
you have a push-button kitchen. Well, I don't
exactly have a push-button kitchen, but I do have
some conveniences far from the fireplace. Now,
you see all of these tomato peelings, squash bits,
cucumber bits. No, they wouldn't go in the
disposal unit. You know where they'd go? Where?
They'd go in a little can that would have a lid on it,
which was a molasses bucket, usually. They sat on a
workbench or a work table, which would be much like
this table right here. And you would turn around,
grab all that stuff up and put it in there. Then you
had a garbage bucket on the outside of the house
that you put this stuff in and took and fed to the
hogs. Uh-huh. You recycled it, more or less. Yes,
sir. Really? Everything had purpose. You bet. You
wasted nothing. Wasted nothing.
Well, I don't regret it. I think I lived the most
wonderful days that Texas will ever see. Anybody
in Texas. I think that, of course, that's my
prerogative to believe that, but am I right? I
think But you take how many, well, there's just not
too many people living today that can call back the
time that Pancho Villa invaded Texas. And
remember it. And remember how we were stirred up
about it and what it really meant. Then we come
along to World War I, then World War II,
then the Korean, then the Vietnamese. You've seen
them all. I have. And sit on my grandpappy's lap,
and curl that long white beard, and hear him tell
the stories of the Civil War. You've known all of
America's wars through. I'm telling you, to me,
that is a wonderful time to live. And when my
granddaddy Pepe was buried, there were six
Confederate soldiers at his funeral. I can't
remember all of the song, but I can remember part of
it. I'll lay away a suit of gray to wear till the
Union blew. Six old Confederates sang it. How
beautiful. And to me, that was touching. I don't
know. That's just my way of life. I think of those
things as.
I think of them too. I do often.
Because I only knew one of my grandfathers too.
You've been fortunate to know many of them. I knew.
Both of mine. Both of yours.
Oh, those are beautiful.
Piece of art. They really are. He just talking.
He's got it down. Yeah, he likes good
food too. Good cooking is an art. Oh, look at that.
Where do you want it? You can put one over there on
the bar. OK. Or no, let's eat on the table. Shoot,
fire. There's no sense in that. OK.
Here, eye pockets.
These are not very good, but they'll answer the
purpose today. Over here. Oh, shoot, fire. These
are better. Here, I'll get that while you get the
telephone. Well, get the plates out. I will, Ava.
Anyway, your daddy was? My daddy was president of
the old Trail Drivers of Texas for years. And I
believe the last year that he served as Trail
Driver of Texas, There was only three living. I
have a picture that hangs on my wall of the last five
original trail drivers in Texas. And that's where
I found out about the Copes, the Browns, the
Lovings, and all of them, was through the old trail
drivers and their organization that met in San
Antonio at the Gunner Hotel. And I used to go down
there with my daddy to meetings. And having driven
cattle from San Antonio to Johnson City when I
wasn't but 10 years old, I know what cattle driving
is back in those days. Now let me tell you, that was
something. And don't think it isn't, man. When
they come by here. advertising a trail ride to go do
something. For fun, right? For fun. It was no fun.
It was no fun to me. Well, they don't do it like we had
to do it. It was no fancy salon to bring your cattle
through. And it was thick cedar. And I'm telling
you, that was something else driving those
things. My daddy bought a bunch of Mexico steers.
Mm-hmm. Mm. That was horrible. You picked him up in
San Antonio? San Antonio. How many head? 150. 150,
wow. I got home with 75. Really?
You know how we knew our stairs from anybody
else's? The tails was cut off. That's the truth.
That was the brain? The bobtail. They bobtailed
every one of those steers. Mm-hmm. So that, you
know, a steer will have a curl or a cow. And whenever
they lose that curl in their tail, they're too old.
They go to the market. Now, that's one of the
markings my daddy told me as a little girl. If
you're not sure how old that cow is or whatnot, when
that tail, that curl is out of that tail, ship them.
Really? So when we took these steers off and ran
them through the pen, we cut the tails off every one
of them. That long tussle. Mm-hmm. For their fly
swatter. Mm-hmm. So that we'd know how to tell them
if they were lost. And we had a... There at the sea
blow, we had a storm come up. Mm-hmm. And, well,
they call it sea wall now, I think. But anyway, we
called it the sea blow. Mm-hmm. Now... Our cattle
stampeded and ran in every direction. But by call
and by herding the next morning, we were able to get
the biggest part of them back. And it started out
again. Don't tell me. I've often heard of
lightning jumping from horn to horn or hitting
balls of fire. I did. I was like that little colored
boy. I was willing, but my feet just wouldn't stand
still. I got back to that wagon and I
hurt. You told me about that one time. It made an
impression on me that I'll never forget. That's
scary. What happened? It was a storm came up.
Thundering, electrical storm. And when the
lightning had come out, It would just jump like
from horn to horn on those stairs. That stuff was
electricity. Balls of fire. I don't know what
you'd call it because I never had the opportunity
to see a bunch of stock in a herd that many. And it was
heat that drew it, I'm sure. I think that's the
static electricity that causes that. I've heard
of that, and you told me that story once before. I
mean, I'm not kidding. I never was scared of that in
my life. Mm-hmm. It's amazing. You ever seen that?
Heard of that? Mm-hmm. I wonder if I could have
another one of those fattening biscuits over
here. I just cannot resist it. Does that look like
somebody's coming in here? It sure did. Oh, thank
you. Hello. Yes. Come in.
Well, what are we? Well, how are you, Ms. Stewart?
Oh, I thought I'd come over here and welcome you to
this street. Well, good. Hello. Can I have some
beer with us? No, thank you. I come over here. I
didn't know Lena called me and said you were going
to have to go to Kitty Clyde and copy this down.
That's right. Oh, well, great. But one's a little
different. Well, I bet I can copy it and get it
right. Mm-hmm. Well, you don't have to come and
just study. Just study, huh? Sit down. Miss
Stewart, this is my friend that used to work with
the park here. Cynthia Ott. Hi. And I don't know
your name. Luke? Luke! In my pocket. I need a little
ceiling up there. No, but I'll sit down here and
I'll show you this. Yes, you will. All right. I
didn't know you had something here. I wouldn't
have come out. I just come out of that garden of
digging around. Well, I've been in the house
digging, trying to get things put away. And I was
late with dinner. You look like you're doing real
good around here with that. Well, I'm late. You'd
better have a roll with us. No, thank you. I got
dinner cooked. This one, it just changes a little
bit. I didn't bring my glasses. But this is the last
one I have. I nearly worn it out. They only, I had.
Ate them. Yeah. Food. Now, this is a funeral. Yeah,
a funeral. Yellow symbolizes constancy, teaches
faithful obedience to the demands of honor and
justice. Ruth exemplified these virtues in
humble station and sought the society of good and
truth. In token of appreciation of these virtues,
I deposit the full tribute. That's the part that's
different. Now, that means it often changes it
here. Yeah. And it's easier to say this than it is
that. But you aren't going to have a flyer to
deposit saying Jerry told me. Have you lost
someone in the group? No, we're expecting
someone. I
understand. I understand. That's a lot easier to
say. Yeah, it's a lot easier than this other. Yeah.
Well, I'll just get my pencil right now and put this
down. Yeah, yeah, you can. Just take this and then
just make that change and write the change down.
Because that's a lot easier for me. Oh, do you like
okra? I brought you a little. Well, great. You know
I do, huh? How is your garden? Do you have a garden
this year? Yes, I have a garden. It's a pretty big
one, but some of it's already withered. Oh, yeah,
it's in the forest. They took care of it in the
forest. That rain was so much. They live in Austin.
They came up. I eat a lot of squash raw. I just
introduced her to raw squash today. I don't think
she'd ever taste it. I love it. This is old for her.
Is it? Well, good. I eat it raw and I eat it cooked.
Now this is the one we use? Yeah, that one. All
right, now then.
Ruthie. I didn't know you were having dinner,
Laura. I wouldn't have bothered you. I thought you
may be going to leave just in a little while the
kitty cries. So I just went on over here. Yeah, but I
was going to go over there and copy. Mm-hmm.
We kept her talking, so we got around to eating
light. Why don't I leave the books for you and let
you cop it, and then I'll come get it. Well, you
might want to study it. Let me get started. Well,
all right. I think I'm practically annoyed. I've
had three days to burn it. Well, I didn't know it
until last night. Well, she called me about, she
called everybody about three days ago. Well, she
sure didn't call me. But that's nothing. I've
never been considered a member of that Eastern
Star since I've been in there. That's right. I
stayed two weeks in that hospital. Mm-hmm. And two
days before I was to leave, they sent me some
flowers. But I guess she was in a hurry because she
said she had to take her daughter home. I think her
daughter's been in the hospital or sick or
something. I don't know. Well, Kitty Clyde didn't
even tell me. Well, she said she, I believe she
called me the day before yesterday that she had to
go. Yeah, and she didn't think she'd get back. She
said maybe Pat. Yeah, we've had
it here.